# ECE387GroupProject

# Description
The Smart Boxing Glove is a system that can detect the types of punches the user is throwing using a simple “neural network” learning algorithm. Inside the glove is the MMA8451 accelerometer and three impact sensors. The accelerometer is wired to a raspberry pi using I2C connections and the impact sensors are wired to an Arduino. The Arduino serves as an ADC for the impact sensors so the data can be read into the raspberry pi. 
# Purpose
Having someone train you in a fighting style or martial art can be expensive and time restricting. The system that we designed is meant to bypass the need for a human trainer so that you can train just as effectively on your own down and at a faction of the cost. The system uses acceleration data from the accelerometer to “guess” what kind of punch the user throwing but further development would allow the user to see how accurate each different punch is the perfect version of that punch (i.e. how good your jab is to a professional boxer’s jab). This would allow a user to train as if a professional boxer were right there with helping them correct their form.
# How it’s Built
To construct our system, we embedded the accelerometer on the top of the glove so that it is lays on the back of the user’s hand. The three impact sensors were routed inside the glove to rest on the users knuckles. We mounted the raspberry pi and Arduino onto a tactical belt so that they were out of harm’s way and routed all of the connections from the glove, through a long sleeve shirt, down to the belt. The MMA8451 accelerometer was wired to the pi with V_in to pin 1, SDA to pin 3, SCL to pin 5, and ground to pin 9. The impact sensors work as variable resistors to differences in physical pressure, so a simple voltage dividing circuit was made for each sensor and connected to the analog in side of the Arduino. The Arduino was then connected via USB to the raspberry pi. The pi receives power from an external battery pack. 
# How it Works
We create an elementary neural network that uses past punch type data to predict the current punch thrown. We first trained the system by getting data for three different kinds of punches, a jab, hook, and uppercut. Each punch was thrown 20 times while wear the system to serve as a base point for the system. This data set is then compared to the data of each punch there after to guess the type of punch the user threw.
